---
title: "About"
permalink: /about/
---

<p>Mohamed obtained his BSc in Mechatronics Engineering with Highest Honours from the German University in Cairo, Egypt, where he was awarded a scholarship to conduct his bachelor dissertation at RWTH Aachen, Germany, in the field of control theory. During the final year of his bachelor’s degree, he explored his passion for the field of medical robotics and image-guided interventions. A field that allowed him to combine his love for science and engineering with a passion for helping others. As an undergraduate research assistant, he contributed towards the development of a motion control system for the manipulation of magnetic microrobots for the application of targeted drug delivery. The following year, he was awarded a full scholarship to pursue his master’s degree at the University of Twente, the Netherlands. For his dissertation, he expanded his medical robotics arsenal by exploring the growing area of image-guided robotic interventions, more specifically Magnetic Resonance (MR)-guided robotic interventions. His project aimed to improve the accuracy and efficiency of MR-guided breast biopsies and to reduce the number of false-negative results by devising an MR-safe robotic system. As his curiosity to learn more about new healthcare technologies grew, he decided to pursue a PhD to further challenge himself and push the boundaries of science, technology, engineering, and medicine. Due to his proven academic and research track records, he received a scholarship from the Institute of Global Health Innovation to conduct his doctoral research at the Hamlyn Centre for Robotic Surgery, Imperial College London, UK. His PhD explored the development of a robotic platform that addresses the challenges faced by operators while treating patients with cardiovascular diseases. Mohamed is currently a postdoctoral research associate within the Hamlyn Centre, employing his skillset in robotics and medical devices to address other clinical challenges.</p>
